===========
Assignments
===========

:title: Assignments
:sortorder: 2

The assignments will be done in groups comprised of four or five students. The
groups will be formed to mix students from the participating universities and
differing disciplines. The groups will be assigned before arrival. You'll have
opportunity to get to know each other on the first day. You'll perform your
experiment on one or more riders from your group and their chosen human-powered
wheeled vehicle.

Groups will need to make use of simple tools and accessible data at your
disposal: tape measures, kilometer markers, stopwatches, smartphone sensors,
cameras, video cameras, GIS downloads, etc. Be clever and resourceful!

Assignment 1: Estimate Athlete Power Capacity
=============================================

The objective of this assignment is to estimate aerobic capacity for at least
two members of your group and anaerobic capacity for at least one member of
your group. Both results should should be based off of data your group
collects, but should be supplemented or supported by values found in relevant
scientific literature. You will have the option to do a Wingate and
VO2-Max test in the bicycle lab for one subject per team, so the second aerobic
test should be using a simple method. [1]_

The aims are to:

- Design and execute simple experiments using measurement tools at your
  disposal to collect the necessary data needed for your estimates.
- Calculate reasonable estimates for the aerobic and anaerobic capacity of the
  chosen athletes.
- Compare the aerobic capacities of two members of your group and report on the
  anaerobic capacity of one member.
- Report on your experiment and result in the light of available information
  from sports engineering scientific literature.

.. [1] Your team may opt out of performing the Wingate and VO2max tests. In
   that case, use simpler tests, another team's data, or data from literature.

..
   Assignment 2: Estimate Air and Rolling Resistance
   =================================================

   The primary objective of this assignment is to estimate the contributions of
   air resistance and rolling resistance for at least one member of your group and
   their vehicle. The secondary objective is to compare lower or higher air and
   rolling resistance effects. Each estimate should be based off of data your
   group collects, and should be supplemented or supported by values found in
   relevant scientific literature.

   The aims are to:

   - Design and execute two simple experiments to collect the necessary data
     needed for calculating air and rolling resistance estimates.
   - Calculate reasonable estimates for the two losses for a vehicle and rider of
     your choice.
   - Show the effect of self-chosen vehicle/rider modification that affects the
     air resistance estimates.
   - Show the effect of self-chosen vehicle/rider modification that affects the
     rolling resistance estimates.
   - Report on your experiment and result in the light of available information
     from sports engineering scientific literature.

   In total, you will need data from a minimum of 4 trials: air resistance,
   rolling resistance, modified air resistance, modified rolling resistance.

   Assignment 3: Predict Race Duration
   ===================================

   The objective of this assignment is to predict the duration for a race against
   time for multiple laps in a velodrome for at least one member of your group and
   two scenarios of your choice. If you want to do something different than a race
   against time, consult with the instructors. At least one scenario should be
   significantly different than simply a time trial of a race bike on the track.
   For example, think about tire type and pressure, aerodynamic changes, drafting,
   unusual bicycles (cargo, tandem, omafiets, etc.).

   The aims are to:

   - Develop a computational model to estimate the race time in the velodrome
     based on collected data and work done in the prior assignments.
   - Collect necessary data for the race to make your time prediction using your
     cycling power balance model.
   - Compare the two scenarios and how well you were able to predict both,
     explaining why.
   - Report on your experiment and result in the light of available information
     from sports engineering scientific literature.

   In total you will need data from a minimum of 2 trials, one data set from each
   scenario.

Assessment
==========

**All assessment documents should be submitted as a PDF to the "Files" area of
your group's private channel in the "Sports Engineering 2023" MS Team.**

Intermediate Reporting
----------------------

At each reporting activity in the schedule (one for each assignment) each group
will be expected to submit a PDF written document with 2 pages of content max
and make a (strictly) 3 minute presentation to the class. At least two
scientific literature resources should be used and cited in each of these
reports. The title, author list, and bibliography do not count against the page
limit. Submit a PDF of the report and a PDF of the slide deck to the "Files"
section of your group's MS Team channel by the end of the reporting activity
period. The instructors will provide unstructured written and verbal feedback
to your group before the next assignment is introduced.

Final Report
------------

Each group should submit a PDF final report with maximum of 6 pages of content
including methods, results, and discussion based on the two intermediate
reports and your final work by 23:59 Friday July 21th, 2023. At least six
scientific literature resources should be used and cited. The title, author
list, and bibliography do not count against the page limit.

Final Presentation
------------------

Each group will present a maximum 15 minute presentation the afternoon of the
last day. The presentation will be followed by 5 minutes of Q & A. You should
present your model predictions and its comparison to the measured race duration
to the class, including the procedures and results of assignments 1 & 2 on
which your predictions are based. Submit a PDF of the slide deck along with
your final report and peer review.

Peer Review
-----------

Each student in the class will submit a structured review of contributions of
yourself and your group members alongside the final report one week after the
last day of the course. A form will be provided for this.

Grading
-------

For the students collecting course credit, the grade will be either a "pass" or
a "fail". To pass your group needs to receive a "pass" assessment on each
report, you must participate in the group presentations, and each student
should receive a satisfactory peer review score from their group members.
